README.md, before:

# VictoriaLogs

[![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs?sort=semver&label=&logo=github&labelColor=gray&color=gray&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs%2Freleases%2Flatest)](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/releases)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/victoriametrics/victoria-logs?label=&logo=docker&logoColor=white&labelColor=2496ED&color=2496ED&link=https%3A%2F%2Fhub.docker.com%2Fr%2Fvictoriametrics%2Fvictoria-logs)
[![Go Report](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs?link=https%3A%2F%2Fgoreportcard.com%2Freport%2Fgithub.com%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg?branch=master&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs%2Factions)](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?link=https%3A%2F%2Fcodecov.io%2Fgh%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs?labelColor=green&label=&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2FLICENSE)](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/blob/master/LICENSE)
![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/Join-4A154B?logo=slack&link=https%3A%2F%2Fslack.victoriametrics.com)
[![X](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/VictoriaMetrics?style=flat&label=Follow&color=black&logo=x&labelColor=black&link=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2FVictoriaMetrics)](https://x.com/VictoriaMetrics/)
[![Reddit](https://img.shields.io/reddit/subreddit-subscribers/VictoriaMetrics?style=flat&label=Join&labelColor=red&logoColor=white&logo=reddit&link=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reddit.com%2Fr%2FVictoriaMetrics)](https://www.reddit.com/r/VictoriaMetrics/)

VictoriaLogs is a fast easy to use database for logs.

Here are some resources and information about VictoriaLogs:

- [Documentation](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/)
- Available: [Binary releases](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/releases/latest), docker images [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/victoriametrics/victoria-logs/) and [Quay](https://quay.io/repository/victoriametrics/victoria-logs), [Source code](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs)
- Deployment types: [Single-node version](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/), [Cluster version](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/cluster/)
- Changelog: [CHANGELOG](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/changelog/), and [How to upgrade](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/#upgrading)
- Community: [Slack](https://slack.victoriametrics.com/), [X (Twitter)](https://x.com/VictoriaMetrics), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/victoriametrics/), [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@VictoriaMetrics)

Both the single-node and the cluster versions of VictoriaLogs are open source and free to use.

## Community and contributions

Feel free asking any questions regarding VictoriaLogs:

* [Slack Inviter](https://slack.victoriametrics.com/) and [Slack channel](https://victoriametrics.slack.com/)
* [X (Twitter)](https://x.com/VictoriaMetrics/)
* [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/company/victoriametrics/)
* [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/VictoriaMetrics/)
* [Telegram-en](https://t.me/VictoriaMetrics_en)
* [Telegram-ru](https://t.me/VictoriaLogs_ru)
* [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/@victoriametrics/)

If you like VictoriaLogs and want to contribute, then please [read these docs](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/contributing/).

Thank you for your cooperation!

Commit message:

Add links to Grafana playground for VictoriaLogs additionally to links to the playground for the built-in web UI
The link to Grafana playground for VictoriaLogs is https://play-grafana.victoriametrics.com/d/be5zidev72m80f/k8s-logs-via-victorialogs

README.md, after:

# VictoriaLogs

[![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs?sort=semver&label=&logo=github&labelColor=gray&color=gray&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs%2Freleases%2Flatest)](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/releases)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/victoriametrics/victoria-logs?label=&logo=docker&logoColor=white&labelColor=2496ED&color=2496ED&link=https%3A%2F%2Fhub.docker.com%2Fr%2Fvictoriametrics%2Fvictoria-logs)
[![Go Report](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs?link=https%3A%2F%2Fgoreportcard.com%2Freport%2Fgithub.com%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg?branch=master&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs%2Factions)](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?link=https%3A%2F%2Fcodecov.io%2Fgh%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs?labelColor=green&label=&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FVictoriaMetrics%2FVictoriaLogs%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2FLICENSE)](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/blob/master/LICENSE)
![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/Join-4A154B?logo=slack&link=https%3A%2F%2Fslack.victoriametrics.com)
[![X](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/VictoriaMetrics?style=flat&label=Follow&color=black&logo=x&labelColor=black&link=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2FVictoriaMetrics)](https://x.com/VictoriaMetrics/)
[![Reddit](https://img.shields.io/reddit/subreddit-subscribers/VictoriaMetrics?style=flat&label=Join&labelColor=red&logoColor=white&logo=reddit&link=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reddit.com%2Fr%2FVictoriaMetrics)](https://www.reddit.com/r/VictoriaMetrics/)

VictoriaLogs is a fast easy to use database for logs.

Here are some resources and information about VictoriaLogs:

- Playgrounds: [playground for the built-in web UI](https://play-vmlogs.victoriametrics.com/), [playground for Grafana plugin for VictoriaLogs](https://play-grafana.victoriametrics.com/d/be5zidev72m80f/k8s-logs-via-victorialogs)
- [Documentation](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/)
- Available: [Binary releases](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/releases/latest), docker images [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/victoriametrics/victoria-logs/) and [Quay](https://quay.io/repository/victoriametrics/victoria-logs), [Source code](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs)
- Deployment types: [Single-node version](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/), [Cluster version](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/cluster/)
- Changelog: [CHANGELOG](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/changelog/), and [How to upgrade](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/#upgrading)
- Community: [Slack](https://slack.victoriametrics.com/), [X (Twitter)](https://x.com/VictoriaMetrics), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/victoriametrics/), [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@VictoriaMetrics)

Both the single-node and the cluster versions of VictoriaLogs are open source and free to use.

## Community and contributions

Feel free asking any questions regarding VictoriaLogs:

* [Slack Inviter](https://slack.victoriametrics.com/) and [Slack channel](https://victoriametrics.slack.com/)
* [X (Twitter)](https://x.com/VictoriaMetrics/)
* [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/company/victoriametrics/)
* [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/VictoriaMetrics/)
* [Telegram-en](https://t.me/VictoriaMetrics_en)
* [Telegram-ru](https://t.me/VictoriaLogs_ru)
* [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/@victoriametrics/)

If you like VictoriaLogs and want to contribute, then please [read these docs](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/contributing/).

Thank you for your cooperation!
