docs/victorialogs/data-ingestion/syslog.md, before:

---
weight: 10
title: Syslog setup
disableToc: true
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "victorialogs-data-ingestion"
    weight: 10
tags:
   - logs
aliases:
   - /victorialogs/data-ingestion/syslog.html
---
[VictoriaLogs](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/) can accept logs in [Syslog formats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog) at the specified TCP and UDP addresses
via `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` command-line flags. The following syslog formats are supported:

- [RFC3164](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3164) aka `<PRI>MMM DD hh:mm:ss HOSTNAME APP-NAME[PROCID]: MESSAGE`
- [RFC5424](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5424) aka `<PRI>1 TIMESTAMP HOSTNAME APP-NAME PROCID MSGID [STRUCTURED-DATA] MESSAGE`

For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which accepts logs in Syslog format at TCP port 514 on all the network interfaces:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514
```

It may be needed to run VictoriaLogs under `root` user or to set [`CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE`](https://superuser.com/questions/710253/allow-non-root-process-to-bind-to-port-80-and-443)
option if syslog messages must be accepted at TCP port below 1024.

The following command starts VictoriaLogs, which accepts logs in Syslog format at TCP and UDP ports 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.listenAddr.udp=:514
```

VictoriaLogs can accept logs from the following syslog collectors:

- [Rsyslog](https://www.rsyslog.com/). See [these docs](#rsyslog).
- [Syslog-ng](https://www.syslog-ng.com/). See [these docs](#syslog-ng).

Multiple logs in Syslog format can be ingested via a single TCP connection or via a single UDP packet - just put every log on a separate line
and delimit them with `\n` char.

VictoriaLogs automatically extracts the following [log fields](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model)
from the received Syslog lines:

- [`_time`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#time-field) - log timestamp. See also [log timestamps](#log-timestamps)
- [`_msg`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#message-field) - the `MESSAGE` field from the supported syslog formats above
- `hostname`, `app_name` and `proc_id` - for unique identification of [log streams](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#stream-fields).
  It is possible to change the list of fields for log streams - see [these docs](#stream-fields).
- `level` - string representation of the log level according to the `<PRI>` field value
- `priority`, `facility` and `severity` - these fields are extracted from `<PRI>` field
- `facility_keyword` - string representation of the `facility` field according to [these docs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Facility)
- `format` - this field is set to either `rfc3164` or `rfc5424` depending on the format of the parsed syslog line
- `msg_id` - `MSGID` field from log line in `RFC5424` format.

The `[STRUCTURED-DATA]` is parsed into fields with the `SD-ID.param1`, `SD-ID.param2`, ..., `SD-ID.paramN` names and the corresponding values
according to [the specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5424#section-6.3).

By default local timezone is used when parsing timestamps in `rfc3164` lines. This can be changed to any desired timezone via `-syslog.timezone` command-line flag.
See [the list of supported timezone identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones). For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs,
which parses syslog timestamps in `rfc3164` using `Europe/Berlin` timezone:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.timezone='Europe/Berlin'
```

The ingested logs can be queried via [logs querying API](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/querying/#http-api). For example, the following command
returns ingested logs for the last 5 minutes by using [time filter](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/logsql/#time-filter):

```sh
curl http://localhost:9428/select/logsql/query -d 'query=_time:5m'
```

See also:

- [Log timestamps](#log-timestamps)
- [Security](#security)
- [Compression](#compression)
- [Multitenancy](#multitenancy)
- [Stream fields](#stream-fields)
- [Dropping fields](#dropping-fields)
- [Decolorizing fields](#decolorizing-fields)
- [Adding extra fields](#adding-extra-fields)
- [Capturing remote ip address](#capturing-remote-ip-address)
- [Data ingestion troubleshooting](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/data-ingestion/#troubleshooting).
- [How to query VictoriaLogs](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/querying/).

## Log timestamps

By default VictoriaLogs uses the timestamp from the parsed Syslog message as [`_time` field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#time-field).
Sometimes the ingested Syslog messages may contain incorrect timestamps (for example, timestamps with incorrect timezone). In this case VictoriaLogs can be configured
for using the log ingestion timestamp as [`_time` field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#time-field). This can be done by specifying
`-syslog.useLocalTimestamp.tcp` command-line flag for the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` address:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.useLocalTimestamp.tcp
```

In this case the original timestamp from the Syslog message is stored in `timestamp` [log field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model).

The `-syslog.useLocalTimestamp.udp` command-line flag can be used for instructing VictoriaLogs to use local timestamps for the ingested logs
via the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` address:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.udp=:514 -syslog.useLocalTimestamp.udp
```

## Security

By default VictoriaLogs accepts plaintext data at `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` address. Run VictoriaLogs with `-syslog.tls` command-line flag
in order to accept TLS-encrypted logs at `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` address. The `-syslog.tlsCertFile` and `-syslog.tlsKeyFile` command-line flags
must be set to paths to TLS certificate file and TLS key file if `-syslog.tls` is set. For example, the following command
starts VictoriaLogs, which accepts TLS-encrypted syslog messages at TCP port 6514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:6514 -syslog.tls -syslog.tlsCertFile=/path/to/tls/cert -syslog.tlsKeyFile=/path/to/tls/key
```

## Compression

By default VictoriaLogs accepts uncompressed log messages in Syslog format at `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` addresses.
It is possible configuring VictoriaLogs to accept compressed log messages via `-syslog.compressMethod.tcp` and `-syslog.compressMethod.udp` command-line flags.
The following compression methods are supported:

- `none` - no compression
- `zstd` - [zstd compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zstd)
- `gzip` - [gzip compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip)
- `deflate` - [deflate compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deflate)

For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which accepts gzip-compressed syslog messages at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.compressMethod.tcp=gzip
```

## Multitenancy

By default, the ingested logs are stored in the `(AccountID=0, ProjectID=0)` [tenant](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/#multitenancy).
If you need storing logs in other tenant, then specify the needed tenant via `-syslog.tenantID.tcp` or `-syslog.tenantID.udp` command-line flags
depending on whether TCP or UDP ports are listened for syslog messages.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which writes syslog messages received at TCP port 514, to `(AccountID=12, ProjectID=34)` tenant:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.tenantID.tcp=12:34
```

## Stream fields

VictoriaLogs uses `(hostname, app_name, proc_id)` fields as labels for [log streams](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#stream-fields) by default.
It is possible setting other set of labels via `-syslog.streamFields.tcp` and `-syslog.streamFields.udp` command-line flags
for logs instead via the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.dup` addresses.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which uses `(hostname, app_name)` fields as log stream labels
for logs received at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.streamFields.tcp='["hostname","app_name"]'
```

## Dropping fields

VictoriaLogs supports `-syslog.ignoreFields.tcp` and `-syslog.ignoreFields.udp` command-line flags for skipping
the given [log fields](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model) during ingestion
of Syslog logs into `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` addresses.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which drops `proc_id` and `msg_id` fields from logs received at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.ignoreFields.tcp='["prod_id","msg_id"]'
```

The list may contain field name prefixes ending with `*` such as `some-prefix*`. In this case all the log fields starting with this prefix
are ignored during data ingestion.

## Decolorizing fields

VictoriaLogs supports `-syslog.decolorizeFields.tcp` and `-syslog.decolorizeFields.udp` command-line flags,
which can be used for removing ANSI color codes from the provided list fields during ingestion of Syslog logs
into `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.upd` addresses.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which removes ANSI color codes from [`_msg` field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#message-field)
at logs received via TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.decolorizeFields.tcp='["_msg"]'
```

## Adding extra fields

VictoriaLogs supports -`syslog.extraFields.tcp` and `-syslog.extraFields.udp` command-line flags for adding
the given [log fields](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model) during data ingestion
of Syslog logs into `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` addresses.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which adds `source=foo` and `abc=def` fields to logs received at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.extraFields.tcp='{"source":"foo","abc":"def"}'
```

## Capturing remote IP address

VictoriaLogs can capture the remote IP address for the incoming syslog messages and can automatically store it
into `remote_ip` [log field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model).
Pass `-syslog.useRemoteIP.tcp=true` for capturing remote IP for the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp`.
Pass `-syslog.useRemoteIP.udp=true` for capturing remote IP for the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.udp`.

For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which captures remote IP into `remote_ip` field for logs received at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.useRemoteIP.tcp=true
```

## Multiple configs

VictoriaLogs can accept syslog messages via multiple TCP and UDP ports with individual configurations for [log timestamps](#log-timestamps), [compression](#compression), [security](#security)
and [multitenancy](#multitenancy). Specify multiple command-line flags for this. For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs,
which accepts gzip-compressed syslog messages via TCP port 514 at localhost interface and stores them to [tenant](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/#multitenancy) `123:0`,
plus it accepts TLS-encrypted syslog messages via TCP port 6514 and stores them to [tenant](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/#multitenancy) `567:0`:

```sh
./victoria-logs \
  -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=localhost:514 -syslog.tenantID.tcp=123:0 -syslog.compressMethod.tcp=gzip -syslog.tls=false -syslog.tlsKeyFile='' -syslog.tlsCertFile='' \
  -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:6514 -syslog.tenantID.tcp=567:0 -syslog.compressMethod.tcp=none -syslog.tls=true -syslog.tlsKeyFile=/path/to/tls/key -syslog.tlsCertFile=/path/to/tls/cert
```

## Rsyslog

1. Run VictoriaLogs with `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:29514` command-line flag.
1. Put the following line to [rsyslog](https://www.rsyslog.com/) config (this config is usually located at `/etc/rsyslog.conf`):

   ```
   *.* @@victoria-logs-server:29514
   ```

   Where `victoria-logs-server` is the hostname where VictoriaLogs runs. See [these docs](https://www.rsyslog.com/sending-messages-to-a-remote-syslog-server/)
   for more details.

## Syslog-ng

1. Run VictoriaLogs with `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:29514` command-line flag.
1. Put the following line to [syslog-ng](https://www.syslog-ng.com/) config:

   ```
   destination d_remote {
    tcp("victoria-logs-server" port(29514));
   };
   ```

   Where `victoria-logs-server` is the hostname where VictoriaLogs runs.
   See [these docs](https://support.oneidentity.com/technical-documents/syslog-ng-open-source-edition/3.19/administration-guide/29#TOPIC-1094570) for details.

Commit message:

docs/victorialogs: sync docs with VictoriaLogs-enterprise repository
Updates https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/issues/120

docs/victorialogs/data-ingestion/syslog.md, after:

---
weight: 10
title: Syslog setup
disableToc: true
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "victorialogs-data-ingestion"
    weight: 10
tags:
   - logs
aliases:
   - /victorialogs/data-ingestion/syslog.html
---
[VictoriaLogs](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/) can accept logs in [Syslog formats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog) at the specified TCP and UDP addresses
via `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` command-line flags. The following syslog formats are supported:

- [RFC3164](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3164) aka `<PRI>MMM DD hh:mm:ss HOSTNAME APP-NAME[PROCID]: MESSAGE`
- [RFC5424](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5424) aka `<PRI>1 TIMESTAMP HOSTNAME APP-NAME PROCID MSGID [STRUCTURED-DATA] MESSAGE`

For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which accepts logs in Syslog format at TCP port 514 on all the network interfaces:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514
```

It may be needed to run VictoriaLogs under `root` user or to set [`CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE`](https://superuser.com/questions/710253/allow-non-root-process-to-bind-to-port-80-and-443)
option if syslog messages must be accepted at TCP port below 1024.

The following command starts VictoriaLogs, which accepts logs in Syslog format at TCP and UDP ports 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.listenAddr.udp=:514
```

VictoriaLogs can accept logs from the following syslog collectors:

- [Rsyslog](https://www.rsyslog.com/). See [these docs](#rsyslog).
- [Syslog-ng](https://www.syslog-ng.com/). See [these docs](#syslog-ng).

Multiple logs in Syslog format can be ingested via a single TCP connection or via a single UDP packet - just put every log on a separate line
and delimit them with `\n` char.

VictoriaLogs automatically extracts the following [log fields](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model)
from the received Syslog lines:

- [`_time`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#time-field) - log timestamp. See also [log timestamps](#log-timestamps)
- [`_msg`](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#message-field) - the `MESSAGE` field from the supported syslog formats above
- `hostname`, `app_name` and `proc_id` - for unique identification of [log streams](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#stream-fields).
  It is possible to change the list of fields for log streams - see [these docs](#stream-fields).
- `level` - string representation of the log level according to the `<PRI>` field value
- `priority`, `facility` and `severity` - these fields are extracted from `<PRI>` field
- `facility_keyword` - string representation of the `facility` field according to [these docs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Facility)
- `format` - this field is set to either `rfc3164` or `rfc5424` depending on the format of the parsed syslog line
- `msg_id` - `MSGID` field from log line in `RFC5424` format.

The `[STRUCTURED-DATA]` is parsed into fields with the `SD-ID.param1`, `SD-ID.param2`, ..., `SD-ID.paramN` names and the corresponding values
according to [the specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5424#section-6.3).

By default local timezone is used when parsing timestamps in `rfc3164` lines. This can be changed to any desired timezone via `-syslog.timezone` command-line flag.
See [the list of supported timezone identifiers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones). For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs,
which parses syslog timestamps in `rfc3164` using `Europe/Berlin` timezone:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.timezone='Europe/Berlin'
```

The ingested logs can be queried via [logs querying API](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/querying/#http-api). For example, the following command
returns ingested logs for the last 5 minutes by using [time filter](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/logsql/#time-filter):

```sh
curl http://localhost:9428/select/logsql/query -d 'query=_time:5m'
```

See also:

- [Log timestamps](#log-timestamps)
- [Security](#security)
- [Compression](#compression)
- [Multitenancy](#multitenancy)
- [Stream fields](#stream-fields)
- [Dropping fields](#dropping-fields)
- [Decolorizing fields](#decolorizing-fields)
- [Adding extra fields](#adding-extra-fields)
- [Capturing remote ip address](#capturing-remote-ip-address)
- [Data ingestion troubleshooting](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/data-ingestion/#troubleshooting).
- [How to query VictoriaLogs](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/querying/).

## Log timestamps

By default VictoriaLogs uses the timestamp from the parsed Syslog message as [`_time` field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#time-field).
Sometimes the ingested Syslog messages may contain incorrect timestamps (for example, timestamps with incorrect timezone). In this case VictoriaLogs can be configured
for using the log ingestion timestamp as [`_time` field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#time-field). This can be done by specifying
`-syslog.useLocalTimestamp.tcp` command-line flag for the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` address:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.useLocalTimestamp.tcp
```

In this case the original timestamp from the Syslog message is stored in `timestamp` [log field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model).

The `-syslog.useLocalTimestamp.udp` command-line flag can be used for instructing VictoriaLogs to use local timestamps for the ingested logs
via the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` address:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.udp=:514 -syslog.useLocalTimestamp.udp
```

## Security

By default VictoriaLogs accepts plaintext data at `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` address. Run VictoriaLogs with `-syslog.tls` command-line flag
in order to accept TLS-encrypted logs at `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` address. The `-syslog.tlsCertFile` and `-syslog.tlsKeyFile` command-line flags
must be set to paths to TLS certificate file and TLS key file if `-syslog.tls` is set. For example, the following command
starts VictoriaLogs, which accepts TLS-encrypted syslog messages at TCP port 6514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:6514 -syslog.tls -syslog.tlsCertFile=/path/to/tls/cert -syslog.tlsKeyFile=/path/to/tls/key
```

See also [mTLS docs](#mtls).

### mTLS

[Enterprise version](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/enterprise/) of VictoriaLogs can verify
client TLS certificates (aka [mTLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_authentication)) if `-syslog.mtls` command-line flag is set
for the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` additionally to `-syslog.tls` command-line flag.

By default system-wide [root CA certificates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Root_certificate) are used for the client certificate versification.
Set `-syslog.mtlsCAFile` to the path with custom root CA certificates if needed. The `-syslog.mtlsCAFile` can be set individually per every
`-syslog.listenAddr.tcp`.

[Enterprise version of VictoriaLogs](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/enterprise/) can be downloaded and evaluated for free
from [the releases page](https://github.com/VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaLogs/releases/latest). See [how to request a free trial license](https://victoriametrics.com/products/enterprise/trial/).

## Compression

By default VictoriaLogs accepts uncompressed log messages in Syslog format at `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` addresses.
It is possible configuring VictoriaLogs to accept compressed log messages via `-syslog.compressMethod.tcp` and `-syslog.compressMethod.udp` command-line flags.
The following compression methods are supported:

- `none` - no compression
- `zstd` - [zstd compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zstd)
- `gzip` - [gzip compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip)
- `deflate` - [deflate compression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deflate)

For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which accepts gzip-compressed syslog messages at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.compressMethod.tcp=gzip
```

## Multitenancy

By default, the ingested logs are stored in the `(AccountID=0, ProjectID=0)` [tenant](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/#multitenancy).
If you need storing logs in other tenant, then specify the needed tenant via `-syslog.tenantID.tcp` or `-syslog.tenantID.udp` command-line flags
depending on whether TCP or UDP ports are listened for syslog messages.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which writes syslog messages received at TCP port 514, to `(AccountID=12, ProjectID=34)` tenant:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.tenantID.tcp=12:34
```

## Stream fields

VictoriaLogs uses `(hostname, app_name, proc_id)` fields as labels for [log streams](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#stream-fields) by default.
It is possible setting other set of labels via `-syslog.streamFields.tcp` and `-syslog.streamFields.udp` command-line flags
for logs instead via the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.dup` addresses.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which uses `(hostname, app_name)` fields as log stream labels
for logs received at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.streamFields.tcp='["hostname","app_name"]'
```

## Dropping fields

VictoriaLogs supports `-syslog.ignoreFields.tcp` and `-syslog.ignoreFields.udp` command-line flags for skipping
the given [log fields](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model) during ingestion
of Syslog logs into `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` addresses.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which drops `proc_id` and `msg_id` fields from logs received at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.ignoreFields.tcp='["prod_id","msg_id"]'
```

The list may contain field name prefixes ending with `*` such as `some-prefix*`. In this case all the log fields starting with this prefix
are ignored during data ingestion.

## Decolorizing fields

VictoriaLogs supports `-syslog.decolorizeFields.tcp` and `-syslog.decolorizeFields.udp` command-line flags,
which can be used for removing ANSI color codes from the provided list fields during ingestion of Syslog logs
into `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.upd` addresses.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which removes ANSI color codes from [`_msg` field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#message-field)
at logs received via TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.decolorizeFields.tcp='["_msg"]'
```

## Adding extra fields

VictoriaLogs supports -`syslog.extraFields.tcp` and `-syslog.extraFields.udp` command-line flags for adding
the given [log fields](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model) during data ingestion
of Syslog logs into `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp` and `-syslog.listenAddr.udp` addresses.
For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which adds `source=foo` and `abc=def` fields to logs received at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.extraFields.tcp='{"source":"foo","abc":"def"}'
```

## Capturing remote IP address

VictoriaLogs can capture the remote IP address for the incoming syslog messages and can automatically store it
into `remote_ip` [log field](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/keyconcepts/#data-model).
Pass `-syslog.useRemoteIP.tcp=true` for capturing remote IP for the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp`.
Pass `-syslog.useRemoteIP.udp=true` for capturing remote IP for the corresponding `-syslog.listenAddr.udp`.

For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs, which captures remote IP into `remote_ip` field for logs received at TCP port 514:

```sh
./victoria-logs -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:514 -syslog.useRemoteIP.tcp=true
```

## Multiple configs

VictoriaLogs can accept syslog messages via multiple TCP and UDP ports with individual configurations for [log timestamps](#log-timestamps), [compression](#compression), [security](#security)
and [multitenancy](#multitenancy). Specify multiple command-line flags for this. For example, the following command starts VictoriaLogs,
which accepts gzip-compressed syslog messages via TCP port 514 at localhost interface and stores them to [tenant](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/#multitenancy) `123:0`,
plus it accepts TLS-encrypted syslog messages via TCP port 6514 and stores them to [tenant](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victorialogs/#multitenancy) `567:0`:

```sh
./victoria-logs \
  -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=localhost:514 -syslog.tenantID.tcp=123:0 -syslog.compressMethod.tcp=gzip -syslog.tls=false -syslog.tlsKeyFile='' -syslog.tlsCertFile='' \
  -syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:6514 -syslog.tenantID.tcp=567:0 -syslog.compressMethod.tcp=none -syslog.tls=true -syslog.tlsKeyFile=/path/to/tls/key -syslog.tlsCertFile=/path/to/tls/cert
```

## Rsyslog

1. Run VictoriaLogs with `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:29514` command-line flag.
1. Put the following line to [rsyslog](https://www.rsyslog.com/) config (this config is usually located at `/etc/rsyslog.conf`):

   ```
   *.* @@victoria-logs-server:29514
   ```

   Where `victoria-logs-server` is the hostname where VictoriaLogs runs. See [these docs](https://www.rsyslog.com/sending-messages-to-a-remote-syslog-server/)
   for more details.

## Syslog-ng

1. Run VictoriaLogs with `-syslog.listenAddr.tcp=:29514` command-line flag.
1. Put the following line to [syslog-ng](https://www.syslog-ng.com/) config:

   ```
   destination d_remote {
    tcp("victoria-logs-server" port(29514));
   };
   ```

   Where `victoria-logs-server` is the hostname where VictoriaLogs runs.
   See [these docs](https://support.oneidentity.com/technical-documents/syslog-ng-open-source-edition/3.19/administration-guide/29#TOPIC-1094570) for details.
